1.) -> What role did each of the following play in jewish history? Moses, Solomon, Babylonian captivity
	Moses led the hebrew people from egypt in the book of exodus, and is mostly credited as the author of the first five books of the torah.
	King Solomon was the son of King David, who slew Goliath and founded the Kingdom of David, which would later become known as Israel.
	The conquor of the Kingdom of David by the babylonians led the hebrews to formally write down the torah, and influenced their ideas as how not to act as a people.

2.) -> In what way did the hebrew god mark a revolutionary break with near eastern religious thought?
	The hebrew god is an abstract god, not to be depicted or made into an idol. He is more of a concept of a universal power than of a semi-corpeal diety.

3.) -> How did hebrew religious thought  promote the idea of moral autonomy?
	The hebrew people have to choose to have faith in their god, and follow his instruction. The concept of sin also requires an individual to think about if an action is sinful or if it is good to do, leading to people developing their own morals based on their interpretation of sin.

4.) -> How did the hebrews inturpret the covenant?
	The saw it as God choosing them as his holy people, and as long as they then also made the choice to whorship their god and obey his instruction they would be under his care.

5.) -> What was the hebrew view of women? What was the signifigance of this view for western history?
	The hebrews married, and not being faithful was punishable for both parties, however they allowed for divorce. Marrage required consent, and this equalitarian view has stayed with many civilizations to this day.

6). -> Contrast hebrew law with law in egypt and mesopotamia
	Hebrew laws were first and formost divine. The 10 commandments were the law above any word of man. The egyptians listened to the pharoah's law as he decided it and his views might change over time. The babylonians King Hamurabi wrote down a code for all citizens to live by, but it had difference punishments for different classes of people. 

7.) -> Why did the hebrews consider history to be important?
	They believed they were the chosen people, and that their heros had directly interacted with god. They wanted to preserve their stories and their history for their children to understand the importance of their heritage.

8.) -> both parochialism and universalism were evident in ancient hebrew thought and history.
	The hebrews talked about specific places and events, which supports their parochialism and they also believed that their god was a universal, all powerful god in charge of all humans afterlives, which supports universalism.

9.) -> What role did prophets play in hebrew history? What is the enduring signifigance of their acheivement?
	Prophets exist in most periods of hebrew history, and many stories of phrophecy are in the torah. The enduring signifigance is that today most religious people beleive in the hebrew god YHWH, but follow different prophets. The hebrews beleive Isiah was the last legitimate prophet of god, the christians believe that Jesus Christ is the messiah firetold by Isiah while the muslims think that Mohummad is final divine prophet.

10.)-> Why are hebrews regarded as a source of western civilization?
	The hebrew people had a strong sense of culture and nationalism, even when they had no nation. They were a people bound by blood and faith more than land, and they held many customs and traditions which are still honored to this day. They have survived from being a small tribe wandering from what is now Saudia Arabia through egypt, into Israel, through babylon, and then through the rest of the centuries into modern days.
